## CreateIndex

English
Preferences
Contact Us
Feedback
AWS Documentation

Get started
Service guides
Developer tools
AI resources

Return to the Console

Documentation
Amazon Simple Storage Service (S3)
API Reference
Documentation
Amazon Simple Storage Service (S3)
API Reference
CreateIndex
PDF
Focus mode
Note
Amazon S3 Vectors is in preview release for Amazon S3 and is subject to change.

Creates a vector index within a vector bucket. To specify the vector bucket, you must use either the vector bucket name or the vector bucket Amazon Resource Name (ARN).

Permissions
You must have the s3vectors:CreateIndex permission to use this operation.

Request Syntax

POST /CreateIndex HTTP/1.1
Content-type: application/json

{
"dataType": "string",
"dimension": number,
"distanceMetric": "string",
"indexName": "string",
"metadataConfiguration": {
"nonFilterableMetadataKeys": [ "string" ]
},
"vectorBucketArn": "string",
"vectorBucketName": "string"
}
URI Request Parameters

The request does not use any URI parameters.

Request Body

The request accepts the following data in JSON format.

dataType
The data type of the vectors to be inserted into the vector index.

Type: String

Valid Values: float32

Required: Yes

dimension
The dimensions of the vectors to be inserted into the vector index.

Type: Integer

Valid Range: Minimum value of 1. Maximum value of 4096.

Required: Yes

distanceMetric
The distance metric to be used for similarity search.

Type: String

Valid Values: euclidean | cosine

Required: Yes

indexName
The name of the vector index to create.

Type: String

Length Constraints: Minimum length of 3. Maximum length of 63.

Required: Yes

metadataConfiguration
The metadata configuration for the vector index.

Type: MetadataConfiguration object

Required: No

vectorBucketArn
The Amazon Resource Name (ARN) of the vector bucket to create the vector index in.

Type: String

Required: No

vectorBucketName
The name of the vector bucket to create the vector index in.

Type: String

Length Constraints: Minimum length of 3. Maximum length of 63.

Required: No

Response Syntax

HTTP/1.1 200
Response Elements

If the action is successful, the service sends back an HTTP 200 response with an empty HTTP body.

Errors

AccessDeniedException
Access denied.

HTTP Status Code: 403

ConflictException
The request failed because a vector bucket name or a vector index name already exists. Vector bucket names must be unique within your AWS account for each AWS Region. Vector index names must be unique within your vector bucket. Choose a different vector bucket name or vector index name, and try again.

HTTP Status Code: 409

InternalServerException
The request failed due to an internal server error.

HTTP Status Code: 500

NotFoundException
The request was rejected because the specified resource can't be found.

HTTP Status Code: 404

ServiceQuotaExceededException
Your request exceeds a service quota.

HTTP Status Code: 402

ServiceUnavailableException
The service is unavailable. Wait briefly and retry your request. If it continues to fail, increase your waiting time between retries.

HTTP Status Code: 503

TooManyRequestsException
The request was denied due to request throttling.

HTTP Status Code: 429

ValidationException
The requested action isn't valid.

HTTP Status Code: 400

See Also

For more information about using this API in one of the language-specific AWS SDKs, see the following:

AWS Command Line Interface

AWS SDK for .NET

AWS SDK for C++

AWS SDK for Go v2

AWS SDK for Java V2

AWS SDK for JavaScript V3

AWS SDK for Kotlin

AWS SDK for PHP V3

AWS SDK for Python

AWS SDK for Ruby V3

Discover highly rated pages Abstracts generated by AI

1
2
3
4

AmazonS3 › userguide
What is Amazon S3?
Amazon S3 enables storing, managing, and accessing data objects, with features for optimizing storage costs, ensuring data consistency, and controlling access.
July 16, 2025
AmazonS3 › userguide
General purpose bucket naming rules
Bucket naming rules include length, valid characters, formatting, uniqueness. Avoid periods, choose relevant names, include GUIDs. Create buckets with GUIDs using AWS CLI, SDK.
July 16, 2025
AmazonS3 › userguide
Hosting a static website using Amazon S3
Enabling website hosting on Amazon S3 allows hosting static websites with static content and client-side scripts. Configure index document, custom error document, permissions, logging, redirects, and cross-origin resource sharing.
February 26, 2025

On this page
Request Syntax
URI Request Parameters
Request Body
Response Syntax
Response Elements
Errors
See Also
Did this page help you?
Yes
No
Provide feedback

Next topic:CreateVectorBucket
Previous topic:Amazon S3 Vectors
Need help?
Try AWS re:Post
Connect with an AWS IQ expert
PrivacySite termsCookie preferences© 2025, Amazon Web Services, Inc. or its affiliates. All rights reserved.